# September 05, 2023

### Quiz Prep
Iterating Real functions  
$f: \R \to \R$ often $f: I_\R \to I_\R$ where $I_\R$  means interval over the reals.  
If $x_0 \in I$, then $f(x_0) \in I$.  
If $x_n = f(x_{n-1})$ then $x_n \in I \space (\forall n \in \N)$

__Fixed Points__  
$f(x_0) = x_0$  

__Orbit States__  
If $|f'(x_0)| < 1$ and $x_0$ is fixed, then we say that $x_0$ is attractive.  
If $|f'(x_0)| = 0$ and $x_0$ is fixed, then we say that $x_0$ is super-attractive.
If $|f'(x_0)| > 1$ and $x_0$ is fixed, then we say that $x_0$ is repulsive.  
If $|f'(x_0)| = 1$ and $x_0$ is fixed, then we say that $x_0$ is neutral.  

If $x_0 \to  x_1 \to \dots \to  x_{n-1} \to  x_0$ then we have a periodic orbit.  
In this case, we define $F(x) = $ and classify the orbit state according to the state of attractive point.

### Critical Points
Recall: Critical points exist where $f'(x_0) = 0$ .
The orbit of a critical point is called a critical orbit.

Any attractive or super-attractive must attract at least __one__ critical point.

On thursday, we will be asked:
1. What does it mean to be a fixed point?
2. What does it mean to be an attractive fixed point?

More questions are available on the class discourse forum.

## Examples of Parameterized Families
___Def: A Parameterized Family of Functions___ is a set of functions indexed by a parameter.  
The Quadratic Family: $f_c(x) = x^2 + c$  
The Logistic Family: $f_\lambda(x) = \lambda x(1-x)$

Notice that with the Quadratic Family, if we modify $c$, then the graph is only shifted up and down.  
For the logistic functions, we just use $\lambda$ as some constant similar to $c$.  
Typically, we consider $\lambda \in [0,4]$ as we want our output to be in the range of $[0,4]$.  
Note: With $\lambda = 4$, our output will be $1.0$. Values of $\lambda > 4$, are of little interest as we diverge immediately.  
So $f_\lambda : [0,1] \to [0,1]$.


## The Bifurcation Diagram
Algorithm to generate the Bifurcation Diagram of the Quadratic Family of Functions depending on the parameter $r$:  
___Def: Bifurcation___: The change in the global qualitative behavior of a function as the parameter changes.  
Let $f_r(x) = rx(1-x).
1. Find the critical point $x_r$.
2. Iterate from the critical point a lot to generate the orbit.
3. Continue to iterate for a large unique quantity of parameters.
4. The horizontal axis corresponds to parameters while the vertical axis corresponds to the orbits.

Period of 3 window

Theorem
Critical orbits as orbits more generally.  
If we've got a periodic orbit,  $x_0 \to  x_1 \to \dots \to  x_{n-1} \to  x_0$ , then we define $F(x) = f^n(x)$.  
$$
\begin{aligned}
f(x) &= x^2 - 1\\
F(x) &= (x^2-1)^2 - 1\\
&= x^4 - 2x^2 + 1 - 1\\
&= x^4 - 2x^2.
\end{aligned}
$$

Notice that we can evaluate the derivative of $F(x_0) $ as $ f'(x_0)f'(x_1) \dots f'(x_{n-1})$ by the chain rule.

__Corollary:__  
A period orbit is super-attractive iff it contains a critical point.  
With our chain of functions, if one $f(x_?)$ evaluates as 0, then the entire chain is 0.  
Note: This will assist us with finding interesting behaviors in the bifurcation diagram.

With $f^2_r(\frac{1}{2}) = \frac{1}{2}$, we find that the critical point $r$ is super attractive at value 2.0.