# September 19 -
Quiz review
Skipping tent maps but will come back after fractal geometry.  

## Conjugacy Review
Recall the doubling map $f(x)=2x \text{ mod } 1$ and $H: [0,1] = \{x \in \mathbb{R} : 0 \le x < 1>\}$.  

>___Lemma 2.9.3___: Suppose that
>$$
> x = 0_{\dot 2}b_1b_2b_3\dots 
> \qquad\text{and}\qquad
> y = 0_{\dot 2}b'_1b'_2b'_3\dots 
> $$
> are elements of $H$ that satisfy $b_1 \neq b'_1$ but $b2=b'_2$, then $|x-y| \le \frac{1}{4}$.

Three criteria for a chaotic system
- __Sensitive Dependence on Initial Conditions__: $(\forall x\in H)(\forall\epsilon > 0) (\exists y \in H, \exists n\in \N \ni |x-y|< \epsilon \text{ and } |d^n(x)-d^n(y)| \le \frac{1}{4})$
- __Denseness of Periodic Orbits__: $(\forall \text{open intervals } I \subset H)(\exists \text{periodic orbit} \in I)$
- __A Dense Orbit__: $(\forall I \subset H)(\exists x \in H)$ there is some iterate of $x$ in $I$.

A single orbit is not referred to as __chaotic__, that word is reserved to a system.

To define a function as chaotic, we state $T: \Omega \to \Omega$ where $\Omega \neq \empty$.

## A Few Notes on Computation
Be careful with floating point arithmetic as the imprecision can obscure orbits and introduce error.  
The value $0.1$ is not accurately represented with computers and can be represented as  
$$
0.1 = \frac{1}{10} = 0_{\dot 2}\overline{00011} = \frac{1}{2}\sum_{k=1}^\infin \frac{3}{16^k}.
$$

With the doubling map, we lose one __bit__ of precision when operating under a 64-bit floating point number.  
Note: Only 53 bits are used for the actual number so 53 iterations will result in a quick lose of information.  

To avoid this, we have to not use the Floating Point Unit (FPU) on our computer.  
For python, we can use the `mpmath` package where we can specify our desired amount of precision with
```python
from mpmath import mp

mp.prec = 1000
x = 1/mp.pi
for i in range(1000):
    x = 2*x%1
    print(float(x))
```

Note: We will still encounter our problem but we can prolong our issue with `mp.prec`.

Another solution is to only use rational numbers with fractions at the cost of speed.

## The Complex Quadratic Family
The complex family of functions,
$$
f_x(z)=z^2+c
\qquad\text{where}\qquad
z = a+bi \space (a,b \in\R)(z, i \in \mathbb{C})
$$

The complex plane is where the horizontal axis is the $\mathbb{R}$ and the vertical axis is the $\mathbb{C}$.

Example Problem:
$$
\begin{aligned}
(3+2i) + (4-i)
&= (12+2) + (8-3)i\\
&= 14 + 5i.

\end{aligned}
$$

Recall that the usage of $i$ is the rotation of a value.