Recall: We define the complex plane with,
- The horizontal axis is the real axis
- The vertical axis is the imaginary axis

All points along the circumference of the unit circle in the complex plan is $\{z \in \mathbb{C} : |z| = 1\}$.  

If $z=a+bi$, then $|z| =\sqrt{a^2+b^2}$.  
The set of values that satisfy $|z|=\sqrt{a^2+b^2}$ is named the ___Julia Set___ (of that function specifically).

---

>If you look up the dance of venus and earth, you'll come up with trippy sacred geometry stuff. I don't know what that is so I think its bullshit.
>
> I don't believe in sacred geometry, I believe in trippy stuff.
>
> You guys signed up for my class so you know what you were in for.

[Dance of Earth and Venus](https://www.marksmath.org/visualization/dance_of_earth_and_venus.html)

---

Addition of complex numbers is pretty straight forward.  
Multiplication is a little more tricky.

### Forms of Complex numbers
Cartesian form: $z = a+bi$  
Polar form:
$$
\begin{aligned}
z &= r\cos(\theta) = r\sin(\theta)i
\end{aligned}
$$

Recall from Calculus II: $e^{i\theta} = \cos(\theta) + i\sin(\theta)$
Recall: Taylor series
$$
e^x = \sum^{\infin}_{n=0} \frac{x^n}{n!} = 1 + x + \frac{1}{2!}x^2 + \frac{1}{3!}x^3 + \frac{1}{4!}x^4 + \dots
\\[1em]
e^{i\theta} = \sum^{\infin}_{n=0} \frac{x^n}{n!} = 1 + i\theta + \frac{1}{2!}i\theta^2 + \frac{1}{3!}i\theta^2 + \frac{1}{4!}i\theta^2 + \dots
\\[1em]
\begin{aligned}
\text{Recall: }  i^0 &= 0\\
i^1 &= i\\
i^2 &= -1\\
i^3 &= -i\\
i^4 &= 1\\
\vdots &= \vdots
\end{aligned}\\[1em]

\begin{aligned}
\text{So}\qquad
e^{i\theta} &= \sum^{\infin}_{n=0} \frac{x^n}{n!} = 1 + i\theta - \frac{1}{2!}\theta^2 + \frac{1}{3!}i\theta^2 - \frac{1}{4!}\theta^2 + \dots\\[1em]
&=\biggr(1-\frac{1}{2}\theta^2 + \frac{1}{4!}\theta^4 - \frac{1}{6!}\theta^6 + \dots\biggr) + i\biggr(\theta - \frac{\theta^3}{3!} + \frac{\theta^5}{5!} - \frac{\theta^7}{7!} + \dots\biggr)\\[1em]
&= \cos(\theta) + i\sin(\theta)
\end{aligned}
$$

How do powers work with complex numbers?  
Recall: $(a^b)^c = a^{bc}$.  
$$
\begin{aligned}
f(z) = z^2 \implies f(re^{io}) &= (re^{io})^2\\[1em]
&= r^2(e^{io})^2\\[1em]
&= r^2e^{2io}.
\end{aligned}
$$
If $f(z) = z^2$, then $f(re^{io}) = (re^{io})^2$.  
So $(re^{io})^2 = $.  
This nature of squaring $z$, results in the inward curving of exponents of complex numbers.

---
Moving on to complex dynamics with the quadratic family of functions.  
Def: Fatou Set is the complement of the Julia Set.
With respect to the Julia Set of values, there are three iterated scenarios with 

We won't touch the Mandelbrot Set for now.

Complex Quadratic function $f_c(z) = z^2+c$

[Julia Sets and the Mandelbrot Set](https://www.marksmath.org/visualization/julia2.html)

If you

> How did you make that? "I made it"
