Chaos and Fractals Exam next Thursday
Exercises:
- [Chapter 2 Exercises](https://www.marksmath.org/classes/Fall2023ChaosAndFractals/chaos_and_fractals_2023/exercises-2.html)
- [Chapter 3 Exercises](https://www.marksmath.org/classes/Fall2023ChaosAndFractals/chaos_and_fractals_2023/exercises-3.html)

Recall that starting inside the complex unit circle induces a spiraling convergence towards the center.  
Recall that starting outside the complex unit circle induces a divergence towards infinity.  
Recall that $(re^{i\theta})^2 =r^2e^{2i\theta}$

___Theorem 3.2.1: The Quadratic Escape Criterion___  
Let $f_c(z)=z^2+c$ for some $c \in \mathbb{R}$,  
then the orbit of $z_0$ diverges to $\infin$ whenever $|z_0|$ exceeds $R = max(2, |c|)$.
Note the number $R$ is called the escape radius for the quadratic.  

Proof:
Recall the ___Triangle Inequality___ is $|x+y| \le |x| + |y|$.  
The ___Reverse Triangle Inequality___ is $||x| - |y|| \le |x+y| \le |x| + |y|$

Note that:
$$
\begin{aligned}
|x| &= |x+y-y|\\
&\le |x+y| + |-y|\\
&\le |x+y| + |y|\\
|x| - |y| &\le |x+y|
\end{aligned}
$$

Suppose that $z_0 \in \mathbb{C}$ satisfies that $|z_0| > 2$ and $|z_0| \ge |c|$.  
Thus by the reverse triangle inequality,
$$
\begin{aligned}
Do \space Later
\end{aligned}
$$

> McClure locked us in so we have to learn an Complex domain proof 

___Definition 3.2.2 The Filled Julia Set___  
The orbit of $z_0$ stays bounded by $R=max(2, |c|)$ under iteration of $f_c$.

## 3.3 An algorithm for the filled Julia set
Escape time algorithm:
1. Choose a fixed number $c\in\mathbb{C}$.  
2. Choose a rectangular region in the complex bound on the lower left as $z_{\text{min}}$ and the upper right as $z_{\text{max}}$ 
3. Partition this region into rows and columns. Denote the intersection of a row and column as a pixel with a complex value $z_0$ to be the initial seed for the iteration of $f_c$.
4. For each pixel, iterate $f_c$ from $z_0$ until.  
    a. We exceed the escape radius $R$ in absolute value. Shading is based on iteration attempt.
    b. We exceed some predefined max iteration count.

Note: The filled Julia set is the set of numbers that __never__ escape.

## 3.4 Another look at conjugacy
Let $f_c(z) = z^2 + 2$
Claim:
