# September 29 - Missed Day
## 3.5 The Critical Orbit
For all complex functions of the form
$$
f_c(z) = z^2 + c
$$
there uniquely has exactly one critical point at the origin.  
The orbit of this critical point dominates the global dynamics of the iteration of $f_c$ such that, we derive this theorem.

___Theorem 3.5.1___: Suppose we iterate $f_c$ from the critical point zero, then  
$\quad$ 1. The critical orbit stays bounded by the escape radius which the filled Julia set and filled Julia sets are connected.  
$\quad$ 2. The critical orbit diverges to $\infin$. This Julia set is specifically denoted as a Cantor set.  

For the time being, we can state that the Julia set is totally disconnected when $|c| > 2$ through a process called ___inverse iteration___.  
For inverse iteration, given a function $f:\mathbb{C}\to\mathbb{C}$ and a set $S\in\mathbb{C}$, then  
$$
f^{-1} = \{z\in\mathbb{C}:f(z)\in S\}.
$$

The set $f^{-1}(S)$ is denoted as the _inverse image_ or the _pre-image_ of $S$.  
We define an initial approximation $J_0$ and define
$$
J_n
\quad=\quad
f^{-n}_c(J_0)
\quad\equiv\quad
f^{-1}_c(J_{n-1}).
$$

If an initial approximation is chosen corrected, the sequence of iterates will collapse or approach the filled Julia set.  

### Proof Pre-Requirements
Recall: A ___family___ is a set with a property serving as the index variable.  
Recall: A ___family of functions___ is a set of functions with an index variable that share a similar defining feature in their shape.  

___Theorem 3.2.1: The Quadratic Escape Criterion___  
$\quad$ Let $f_c(z) = z^2 + c$.  
$\quad$ Then the orbit of $z_0$ diverges to $\infin$ whenever $|z_0|$ exceeds $R = \text{max}(2,|c|)$.  
$\quad$ Define $R$ as the escape radius for the quadratic.  

___Proof of Theorem 3.2.1: The Quadratic Escape Criterion___  
Suppose that $z_0\in\mathbb{C}$ satisfies $|z_0| > 2$ and $|z_0| \ge |c|$.  
Recall that the ___reverse triangle inequality___ states that $\Big| |x|-|y| \Big| \le |x+y| \le |x| + |y|$.  
>Then by the reverse triangle inequality, we state that,
>$$
>\begin{aligned}
>   |z_1|
>   =|f(z_0)| = |z^2_0 + c| &\ge |z_0|^2 - |c|\\
>   &\ge |z_0|^2 - |z_0| = |z_0|(|z_0| - 1) = \lambda|z_0|.
>\end{aligned}
>$$
>where $\lambda > 1$.  
>Furthermore, $z_1$ will now also satisfies $z_1 > R$.  
>By induction, we state that $|z_n| \ge \lambda^n|q_0|$.  
>$\therefore z_n\to\infin$ as $n\to\infin$.  

