Moving forward with fractals.
Types of Fractals
- Cantor Set (Proto-typical fractal)
- Self-Similar Spiral
- The Koch Curve
- The Sierpinski Triangle

The limiting object is a self similar set.  
Fractal of 
What class is that? "Its nature in mathematics, its a class that students take."

Fractal Dimension:  
Larger dimensions indicate more crinkliness and complexity.  

## Cantor Set
At the $n^\text{th}$ level, the interval $I = [0, \frac{1}{3^n}] \subset C_n$ and $J=[1-\frac{1}{3^n}, 1] \subset C_n$.  
Recall that the contour set is a self similar set,
so $C \bigcap[0, \frac{1}{3}]$ is a scaled copy of $C$ as is $C \bigcap[0, \frac{1}{3}]$.  
Both are scaled by the factor $\frac{1}{3}$.  

How much is removed in the construction of $C$?
$$
\begin{aligned}
\frac{1}{3} + \frac{2}{9} + \frac{4}{27} + \frac{8}{81} + \dots + \frac{2^n}{3^{n+1}} + \dots &= \sum_{n=0}^\infin \frac{1}{3} \biggr(\frac{2}{3}\biggr)^n\\
&= \frac{1}{3}\biggr(\frac{1}{1-\frac{2}{3}}\biggr)\\
&= 1
\end{aligned}
$$

How long is $C$?
$$
2^n
$$

Important thing to remember: Geometric Formula:
$$
\sum_{n=m}^\infin ar^n = \frac{ar^m}{1-r}.
$$

$$
0_{\dot{3}}\bar{02}
$$

One third in base 3 is $0_{\dot3}1$ and $\sum_{n=2}^\infin 2 \cdot \frac{1}{3^n}$.  
A real number is in the Cantor Set iff it can be written in base 3 with a string of zeros and twos.  
Note: If a number is in the Cantor Set but does not end in a repeating sequence of zeroes and twos, then it is an endpoint of the Cantor Set.

Suppose $\{x_1, x_2, x_3, \dots\}$ is a list of numbers that lie in $C$.

"I'm not going to say countable and uncountable anymore unless for the times I do." We immediately start going over countable sets.

Cantor's diagonalization argument.


Quiz Example:
Do a geometric series and construct a specific point in the cantor set.  
Checkpoint 4.1.3
