## Announcements
Quiz next Thursday

Recall that a set is self similar if,
$$
S = \bigcup_{i=1}^{m}f_i(s)
$$
Note: $f_i$ is denoted as a contractive, similarity transformation.  
Note: The $\{f_i\}$ is referenced as the Iterated Function System IFS.  

Example of an IFS,
```
[
    scale(1/3),
    shift([1/3, 0])
        .compose(scale(1/3))
        .compose(rotate(deg: 60))
]
```

Notation: Let $R$ be the rotation matrix defined as,
$$
R(\theta) = \Biggr[\begin{matrix}
\cos(\theta) & -\sin(\theta)\\
\sin(\theta) & \cos(\theta) \\
\end{matrix}\Biggr]
$$
This matrix is utilized for computing the 


## Sierpinski Pedal Triangle
The Pedal Triangle is a well-defined, self-similar set.  
The Pedal Triangle is a variation of the standard Sierpinski Triangle where the base triangle isn't an equilateral but still acute.  

[Self Similarity & the Pedal Triangle Proof](https://www.marksmath.org/classes/Fall2023ChaosAndFractals/demos/PedalProof.html)  
The proof of this being self-similar is of two theorems from Euclid's Elements.  
The triangle is defined creating an inner triangle whose vertices are the perpendicular vertex of that side and the outer triangle vertex.  
Note: This triangle that is formed is removed and is not similar to the original triangle.  
Aside: The intersection of all of these perpendicular lines is called the orthocenter.  
The result of this function is, $f(\triangle{ABC}) = \{\triangle{AB'C'}, \triangle{A'BC'}, \triangle{A'B'C}\}$  
As this system can be iterated and continue to be self similar, then there is an implied IFS.

### Deterministic IFS Algorithms
A straightforward implementation of an IFS may lead to concentrations of complexity.  
To overcome this, it is common to implement thresholds that stops complexities from growing to negligible infinite.  
It is common to illustrate IFS as $n$-ary trees.  
McClure implemented his Sierpinski Triangle with this algorithms.  
This causes a behavior of uneven but balanced divisions based on a percentage threshold based off the original triangle's area.  

### Stochastic IFS Algorithms
The usage of randomization through moving points to generate fractals.  
For randomization to be used, you may need to weighted selection.  
